beish how would you describe the
reactions to this conflict across Asia I
think overall there is a lot of concern
in the region amongst capitals in the
region as to how this conflict started
and where it is headed uh but a lot of
this concern is also being manifested in
the form of support for one side of the
other so for example you look at
countries like India Singapore and the
Philippines who seem to be firmly on the
side of Israel particularly for India
it's a matter of uh count ing terrorism
and being against terrorism and you also
see that these three countries in
particular are also aligned to the
United States so that is another threat
there that is interesting and on the
other hand you have countries like we
saw in the report we have Indonesia
Bangladesh and Pakistan where the pro
Palestine sentiment amongst the people
is so high and has always been so that
they appear to be firmly on the side of
the Palestinians and Palestinian rights
and then you have certain countries like
Thailand for instance which appear
neutral and remain neutral now which
citizens of which countries do we know
have been caught up in this conflict
Thailand is one of the worst affected
because Thailand has lost some 21
Nationals so far based on latest reports
and there is 11 Nationals who appear to
be in the custody of Hamas and I know I
don't know if many people know this but
there's roughly between 4,500 to 30,000
Tha Nationals who work in Israel so it
is so the the hostage issue particularly
is a big problem for the Tyre government
trying to bring its citizens back from
Gaza and what the Tha government has
already done is trying to bring back
citizens from Israel who would like to
come back to uh Thailand and then you
also have in the same way citizens of
countries like the Philippines and India
there's something like 30,000 Filipinos
who work in Israel and the Filipino
government has set up a task force to
coordinate with Filipinos the the Indian
government has uh set up uh has started
an operation and started efforts to
bring back any of the 18,000 th Indians
who would like to come back uh to India
and then you also have China which is
reporting that three of its Nationals
have been killed in these attacks in
Israel you talk you just mentioned China
What's China's uh uh reaction in general
I mean the Chinese reaction is very
interesting because just a few days back
they urged calm and restrained it was a
rather muted statement and then today a
new statement appeared in which it
appeared that China was offering itself
as a mediator and it's really not a
surprise because China has been aiming
for that position of a mediator an
honest broker of sorts in the Middle
East to try and mediate Not Just Between
the Israelis and the Palestinians with
whom China does have good relations in
fact in June itself China signed a
strategic partnership with the
Palestinian Authority and you also have
good Chinese relations with the Israelis
as well China Investing billions of
dollars over more than a decade in
infrastructure particularly in Israel so
you have China trying to take the
position of an honest broker and try and
uh move the us out of its dominant
position as a mediator in the Middle
East and that is what how the Chinese
statement should be viewed y beny there
from DW news Asia thank you very much
beish